\newpage

\scan{005}

\newpage

% Translation below
\chaptitle{To the inclined reader}

Among all the things under Heaven, we hear in the all-holy Words of
God who are revealed in the 5th Book of Moses,\marginpar{Probably} 20th chapter,
verse 8, how the captains of the Jews have spoken to the soldiers and
those who are afraid and keep fear in their hearts should stay behind
so that they do not place fear in the herats of their brohers. In
[lifta] motto, the pugnacious hero Judas Macabeus (who was brave as a
lion and unafraid like a young lion on the prowl, for this he was
highly regarded in Israel and among all heathens) shouted to his
soldiers that those who were afraid should go back home. Wherein we
see the all-highest's curious dislike for man's womanly and timid
heart.

As they are forbidden that they were not trusted to see to their own
defence and that of the Fatherland. As they're incapable of (to such a
needed and manly endeavour) but with their fearful mind among their
friends and followers. 

Though these means are not only most falls and defeats accomplished
but many a city and country are so found in other hands, with
self-reliance thrown away.

For this sake and so all famous Captains in the past wold (I want to
keep silent about the now) have been eager to have not many, but good
and capabe soldiers, which history carefully shows (like a Mother of
[alltidfhet?]) how a small troop of brave and heartful Warriors
frequently have both beaten and overthrown a large army and thus
conquered land and Countries.
